Create doc for ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled (#27666)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/faq/ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled.md

---
title: IMDSv2 Enablement by Default
aliases:
  - /ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled
---

> With the release of Agent v7.64.0, Datadog **defaults** to using **IMDSv2** for enhanced security and consistency in retrieving AWS metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the release of Agent v7.64.0, Datadog defaults to using IMDSv2 for enhanced security and consistency in retrieving AWS metadata.
```

If you upgrade to Agent v7.64.0 without any custom configuration changes, you may see a change to how hostnames appear in Datadog. After this update, Datadog displays hostnames as instance IDs in Fleet Automation and on the Infrastructure list.

> This change only impacts how hostnames are displayed. Metric tagging **continues** to use your original hostnames. Monitoring, alerting, and dashboards are **not affected**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change only impacts how hostnames are displayed. Metric tagging continues to use your original hostnames. Monitoring, alerting, and dashboards are not affected.
```

> Furthermore, hosts updated from a version preceding 7.64.0 to a later release **may** exhibit an average reporting delay of approximately five minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, hosts updated from a version preceding 7.64.0 to a later release may exhibit an average reporting delay of approximately five minutes.
```

> If your host has already configured the `ec2_prefer_imdsv2` flag to `true`, you won't notice any change since IMDSv2 is already enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your host has already configured the `ec2_prefer_imdsv2` flag to `true`, you won't notice any changes because IMDSv2 is already enabled.
```

> Should any issues arise after updating a host, please revert to the previous behavior by setting `ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled` to `false` in your host configuration, and **contact Support** via the Contact support page in the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any issues arise after updating a host, you can revert to the previous behavior by setting `ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled` to `false` in your host configuration. You can also [contact Support](/help).
```

---
title: IMDSv2 Enablement by Default
aliases:
  - /ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled
---

> With the release of Agent v7.64.0, Datadog defaults to using IMDSv2 for enhanced security and consistency in retrieving AWS metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the release of Agent v7.64.0, Datadog Agent defaults to using IMDSv2 for enhanced security and consistency in retrieving AWS metadata.
```

Reviewer: let's use "**the** Datadog Agent"

> If your host has already configured the `ec2_prefer_imdsv2` flag to `true`, you won't notice any changes as IMDSv2 is already enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your host has already configured the `ec2_prefer_imdsv2` flag to `true`, you should not notice any changes as IMDSv2 is already enabled.
```

> If you upgrade to Agent v7.64.0 without any custom configuration changes, you may see a change to how hostnames appear in Datadog. After this update, Datadog displays hostnames as instance IDs in Fleet Automation and on the Infrastructure list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you upgrade to Agent v7.64.0 without any custom configuration changes, you may see a change to how hostnames appear in Datadog. In particular, displayed hostnames will strongly ensure that they refer to instance IDs rather than other detected hostnames in Fleet Automation and on the Infrastructure list.
```

Reviewer: I don't think it's the hostnames themselves that perform the act of ensuring (pedantic, I know, but it's documentation)

Let's change that sentence: `s/In particular, displayed hostnames will strongly ensure that they refer to instance IDs rather than other detected hostnames in Fleet Automation and on the Infrastructure list./In particular, Datadog ensures that displayed hostnames refer to instance IDs rather than other detected hostnames in Fleet Automation and on the Infrastructure list.`

> This change only impacts how hostnames are displayed. Metric tagging continues to use your original hostnames. Monitoring, alerting, and dashboards are not affected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This change only impacts how hostnames are displayed. Metric tagging continues to use your original hostnames. Monitoring, alerting, and dashboards should not be affected.
```

> ### Canonical Hostname

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Canonical hostname
```

> The hostname picked to tag metrics is named the `canonical hostname`, this hostname is the unique ID used to identify your host. Even if your hostname change after upgrading to v7.64.0+, the `canonical hostname` of your host will not change, you can continue to refer to the previous one as before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hostname picked to tag metrics is named the _canonical hostname_. This hostname is the unique ID used to identify your host. Even if your hostname changes after upgrading to v7.64.0+, the `canonical hostname` of your host does not change, and you can continue to refer to the previous hostname.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd also add `picked to tag metrics` -> `chosen to associate tags with metrics`

> Nonetheless you can force the update of your `canonical hostnames` with the `sobotka_allow_override_canonical_name` feature flag.

Reviewer: Are we sure we want to document this publicly? I haven't really seen us talk about feature flags in the documentation before.

Reviewer 2: I may also lean that we only provide this if necessary. We want to track the hosts with instance IDs where possible.

Author: done

> ### Known Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Known issues
```

> Furthermore, hosts updated from a version preceding v7.64.0 to a later release may exhibit an average reporting delay of approximately five minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hosts updated from a version preceding v7.64.0 to a later release may exhibit an average reporting delay of approximately five minutes.
```

---
title: IMDSv2 Enablement by Default
aliases:
  - /ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled
---

> # IMDSv2 Enablement by Default – What You Need to Know

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You actually don't need this title here at all, the title is already displayed in line 2. also, this is a documentation page, so "what you need to know" is implied :)

> With the release of Agent v7.64.0, Datadog now defaults to using IMDSv2 for enhanced security and consistency in retrieving AWS metadata. This update may result in a change to how hostnames appear in the Datadog UI. Thus your metrics and alerts continue to work as before.
> 
> ## What’s Changing?
> 
> - **Improved Security:**
>   The Agent now uses IMDSv2 by default, which strengthens how metadata are accessed on AWS.
> 
> - **Hostname Display in the UI:**
>   You might notice that in some areas (such as Fleet Automation or the Infrastructure list) the hostname now appears as the AWS instance ID instead of the previous format.
>   **Note:** This change is only in display. Internally, the Agent still tags metrics with your original hostname, so your dashboards and alerts remain unaffected.
> 
> ## Who May See a Change?
> 
> - **Upgrading Customers:**
>   If you upgrade to Agent v7.64.0 without any custom configuration changes, you may see your host’s display name change to the instance ID.
> 
> ## What to Look Out For:
> 
> - **Visual Changes:**
>   After the upgrade, if you struggle to find your host on Fleet Automation or on the Infrastructure list, try to look at their instance ID.
> 
> - **No Impact on Metrics:**
>   Although the displayed hostname might change, the underlying metric tagging still uses your original hostname. This ensures that your monitoring, alerting, and dashboards continue to work **seamlessly**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the release of Agent v7.64.0, Datadog defaults to using IMDSv2 for enhanced security and consistency in retrieving AWS metadata. 

If you upgrade to Agent v7.64.0 without any custom configuration changes, you may see a change to how hostnames appear in Datadog. After this update, Datadog displays hostnames as instance IDs in Fleet Automation and on the Infrastructure list. 

This change only impacts how hostnames are displayed. Metric tagging continues to use your original hostnames. Monitoring, alerting, and dashboards are not affected.
```

There's a lot of redundant, repeated information. I think we can simplify to the above suggestion.

---
title: IMDSv2 Enablement By Default
aliases:
  - /ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled
---

> # IMDSv2 Default Behavior and Host Metadata Enhancement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Defaulting to v2 IMDS metadata collection
```

> Agent v7.64.0 enables IMDSv2 by default for enhanced security and improved metadata handling. The host metadata payload contains a field, `legacy-resolution-hostname`, that captures the AWS instance hostname using legacy resolution logic (when IMDSv2 was disabled) and is only included when needed.

Reviewer 2: It's not necessary to go into the technical details of how we do things, just that the change is being made and what the effects may be

Reviewer 2: We also should link to AWS' deprecation notices here

> The hostname displayed in Datadog **can** change to show the instance ID as the hostname. Datadog continues to use the original hostname to tag the different metrics sent by the Agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While hostname displayed in Datadog may change to show the instance ID as the hostname, Datadog continues to use the original hostname to tag the different metrics sent by the Agent.
```

> ## Field inclusion criteria

Reviewer 2: Given the earlier note about the depth we need, should we remove this section or at least scope it to the visible effects?

The `legacy-resolution-hostname` field appears in the host metadata payload only when **both** of the following conditions are met:

- The configuration flag `ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled` is set to `true`.
- The legacy hostname retrieved is different from the hostname retrieved with IMDSv2.

## Impact on hostname reporting

The addition of the `legacy-resolution-hostname` field **does not** alter the hostname that is used to tag the metrics sent by the Agent. If the Agent previously did not use the instance ID as the hostname, it continues to use the original hostname for metric tagging. This ensures continuity and avoids any disruption in monitoring or alerting setups.

The displayed hostname **can** switch to the instance ID in Fleet Automation and the Infrastructure List. However, you can still locate your host using the original hostname.

> ## Example metadata payload

Reviewer 2: Mentioned earlier but as we go through the doc, there's a focus on developer persona detail level. We should rework this doc to focus on higher-level customer-visible effects and things to look out for. 

Some examples:
- `After upgrading to v<VER> in <CONDITIONs>, you may see <X, Y, Z>. We expect <A,B,C> to be impacted by this. If you see problems you can continue using the previous behavior by <PROCEDURE>`
- `You may notice a delay in your <FEATURE(S)> for X amount of time ...`
- `If you already had the flag <FLAG>, your machine has already been reporting that way and will see no change`

> The following is an example of a host metadata payload that includes the new `legacy-resolution-hostname` field:

Reviewer 2: We definitely don't want this level of detail in user-facing docs

---
title: Enablement IMDSv2 by default
aliases:
  - /ec2_imdsv2_transition_payload_enabled
---

# IMDSv2 Default Behavior & Host Metadata Enhancement

From 7.64.0, the Agent now enables IMDSv2 by default for enhanced security and improved metadata handling. In addition, a new field, `legacy-resolution-hostname`, has been added to the host metadata payload. This field is used to capture the AWS instance hostname using legacy resolution logic (i.e. when IMDSv2 was disabled) and is only included when needed.

> > **Important:** The hostname displayed by the Agent **may** change if the Agent previously did not show the instance ID as the hostname, however it will continue to use the original hostname to tag the different metrics sent by the Agent.

Reviewer 3: > The hostname displayed by the Agent

It might be good to be more specific on what we mean by Agent here.

Alternatively, maybe we can state something like this:
> To ensure backwards compatibility, the hostname displayed in Datadog may not be an instance ID if the host previously existed with a different hostname before the agent upgrade

## What’s New?

1. **IMDSv2 Enabled by Default:**
   - The Agent now defaults to using IMDSv2 for metadata resolution, increasing overall security.

2. **Additional Metadata Field:**
   - **Field Name:** `legacy-resolution-hostname`

>    - **Purpose:** Enables IMDSv2 by default and captures the AWS instance hostname using legacy (IMDSv1) logic.

Reviewer 3: How does this metadata field enabled IMDSv2? Did you mean that it is included when IMDSv2 is enabled?
